.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2020 Julien Nadeau Carriere <vedge@hypertriton.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd July 18, 2007
.Dt BUILD.WWW.MK 5
.Os
.ds vT BSDBuild Reference
.ds oS BSDBuild 2.0
.Sh NAME
.Nm build.www.mk
.Nd bsdbuild - HTML document preprocessing
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd .include <bsd.www.mk>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
module generates a set of HTML documents (or code fragments), possibly in
multiple language variants, from an HTML source file.
The HTML source is processed by
.Xr m4 1
macro processor in conjunction with the multi-language preprocessor
.Xr mlproc 1 .
The following source types are recognized:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
HTML4/HTML5 + M4 sources (*.htm)
.It
M4 macro packages (*.m4)
.It
JavaScript sources (*.js)
.It
Cascading style sheets (*.css-in)
.El
.Pp
From those sources,
.Nm
is able to generate:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Minified HTML documents/fragments (*.html.<lang>)
.It
Matching HTTP variant data (*.html.var)
.It
Minified, translated JavaScript (*.<lang>.js)
.It
Minified cascading style sheets (*.css)
.El
.Sh TARGETS
.Bl -tag -width "deinstall-www "
.It Ar ${HTML}
Source from which to generate HTML documents.
The source may include M4 macro calls, multi-language "<ml>" tags, and
"$_(gettext)" sequences (see
.Xr mlproc 1
for details).
.It Ar ${JS}
JavaScript source files.
The source is only fed through
.Xr mlproc 1 ,
and may include "$_(gettext)" sequences.
.It Ar ${CSS}
Source from which to generate cascading style sheets (may include M4 macro
calls).
.It Ar clean-www
Clean up the generated files.
.It Ar cleandir-www
Clean up for packaging.
.It Ar install-www
Install HTML documents to the target installation directory
.Ev HTMLDIR ,
overwriting any existing document if
.Ev HTML_OVERWRITE
is
.Sq Yes .
If
.Ev HTML_INSTSOURCE
is
.Sq Yes ,
all files needed for re-generating the documents are also installed into the
target directory (including a Makefile).
.It Ar deinstall-www
Uninstall documents from the installation directory.
.El
.Sh VARIABLES
.Bl -tag -width "MINIFIERFLAGSCSS "
.It Ev HTML
Documents to generate and install.
If multilingual support is not required, use the .html extension.
Otherwise, specify the .html.var extension (documents will be generated
for each combination of language and character set -- the .html.var file
may then be used directly by Apache's mod_negotiation or equivalent).
.It Ev M4
Path to the
.Xr m4 1
macro processor.
.It Ev M4FLAGS
Extra flags to pass to m4.
.It Ev MINIFIER
Path to HTML/CSS minifier (such as
.Xr html-minifier 1 ) .
.It Ev MINIFIERFLAGS
Flags to minifier (for HTML).
.It Ev MINIFIERFLAGSCSS
Flags to minifier (for CSS).
.It Ev MLPROC
Path to the
.Xr mlproc 1
preprocessor (part of BSDBuild).
.It Ev MLPROCFLAGS
Arguments to
.Xr mlproc 1 .
For gettext-style translation, the
.Ar -L
and
.Ar -D
arguments should be specified.
.It Ev PERL
Path to the
.Xr perl 1
interpreter.
.It Ev ICONV
Path to the
.Xr iconv 1
utility, needed to generate the character set variants.
.It Ev BASEDIR
Directory containing the macro files
(Default = "m4").
.It Ev DTD
Insert at beginning of generated documents (default: "<!DOCTYPE html>").
.It Ev TEMPLATE
Template to use for preprocessing the HTML source.
It must reside in
.Ev BASEDIR
and use the .m4 extension.
.It Ev CSS_TEMPLATE
Similarly to
.Ev TEMPLATE ,
but used to preprocess CSS source.
.It Ev LANGUAGES
Space-separated list of translations available for the documents specified
in ${HTML}.
See the section
.Dq MULTI-LINGUAL SUPPORT
for more details.
.It Ev DEF_LANGUAGE
The default language.
.It Ev CLEANFILES
Extra files to remove in the
.Sq clean
target.
.It Ev HTMLDIR
Installation directory.
The special value
.Sq none
indicates that the
.Sq install
operation should be a no-op
(Default = "none").
.It Ev HTML_OVERWRITE
Don't overwrite existing documents in the
.Sq install
phase
(Default = "No").
.It Ev HTML_INSTSOURCE
Install the HTML source, templates, JS/stylesheets and all other files
needed to be able to re-generate the documents in the installation directory,
including a Makefile.
(Default = "Yes").
.El
.Sh MULTI-LINGUAL SUPPORT
The
.Ev LANGUAGES
variable specifies a list of languages in which the documents specified in
.Ev HTML
are available.
If documents are fed to
.Xr mlproc 1
(the default), they may contain translations enclosed in <ml> tags, like so:
.Bd -literal
	<ml lang="en">Hello</ml>
	<ml lang="fr">Bonjour</ml>
.Ed
.Pp
Sequences such as "$_(foo)" will also be translated using
.Xr gettext 3
(see
.Xr mlproc 1
for details).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr build.common.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.lib.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.man.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.prog.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.proj.mk 5
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in BSDBuild 1.0.
.Pp
BSDBuild is based on the 4.4BSD build system.
