.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Hypertriton, Inc. <http://www.hypertriton.com/>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd July 18, 2007
.Dt BUILD.DEN.MK 5
.Os
.ds vT BSDBuild Reference
.ds oS BSDBuild 1.0
.Sh NAME
.Nm build.den.mk
.Nd bsdbuild - agar .den archives
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd .include <bsd.den.mk>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
uses the Agar
.Xr dencomp 1
utility to generate an Agar
.Sq .den
resource file from a specified set of media files.
.Sh TARGETS
.Bl -tag -width "deinstall-den "
.It Ar ${DEN}
Generate archive file from the specified media files.
.It Ar clean-den
Clean up the archive file.
.It Ar install-den
Install the archive file into ${DEN_DIR}.
.It Ar deinstall-den
Uninstall archive file from ${DEN_DIR}.
.El
.Sh VARIABLES
.Bl -tag -width "DEN_COPYRIGHT "
.It Ev DENCOMP
Path to
.Xr dencomp 1
utility.
Defaults to
.Sq dencomp ,
usually overridden by a configure script.
.It Ev DENCOMP_FLAGS
Extra flags to pass to
.Xr dencomp 1 .
.It Ev DEN
Name of the archive file to generate.
.It Ev XCF
List of gimp XCF files to archive.
.It Ev WAV
List of WAV files to archive.
.It Ev OGG
List of Ogg Vorbis files to archive.
.It Ev MPEG
List of MPEG files to archive.
.It Ev DEN_LANG
Default ISO 639 language code to assign to the archive.
Defaults to
.Sq en .
.It Ev DEN_NAME
Name to encode in the archive.
Defaults to
.Sq ${DEN} .
.It Ev DEN_AUTHOR
Author string to encode in the archive.
.It Ev DEN_COPYRIGHT
Copyright information to encode in the archive.
.It Ev DEN_DESCR
Description string to encode in the archive.
.It Ev DEN_KEYWORDS
Lookup keywords to encode in the archive.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr build.common.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.prog.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.lib.mk 5
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in BSDBuild 1.0.
.Pp
BSDBuild is based on the 4.4BSD build system.
