.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Hypertriton, Inc. <http://www.hypertriton.com/>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd July 18, 2007
.Dt BUILD.DEP.MK 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm build.dep.mk
.Nd bsdbuild - dependency generation
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd .include <bsd.dep.mk>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
module is used by
.Xr build.prog.mk 5
and
.Xr build.lib.mk 5 ,
but is never included directly into makefiles.
Its role is to generate
.Pa .depend
files, which are used in the build process to determine if object files need
to be rebuilt.
.Sh TARGETS
.Bl -tag -width "depend "
.It Ar depend
Generate a
.Pa .depend
file by invoking the compiler with the
.Ar -M
flag.
.It Ar clean-depend
Clean up the
.Pa .depend
file.
.El
.Sh VARIABLES
.Bl -tag -width "MKDEP "
.It Ev MKDEP
Path to
.Xr mkdep 1
utility.
Defaults to
.Sq ${TOP}/mk/mkdep ,
which is bundled with BSDBuild.
.It Ev CC
Compiler command to invoke (must support the
.Ar -M
option).
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr build.common.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.prog.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.lib.mk 5
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in BSDBuild 1.0.
.Pp
BSDBuild is based on the 4.4BSD build system.
