.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007-2023 Julien Nadeau Carriere <vedge@hypertriton.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 1, 2024
.Dt BUILD.PROG.MK 5
.Os BSDBuild 3.2
.Sh NAME
.Nm build.prog.mk
.Nd bsdbuild - build and install executable programs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd include <build.prog.mk>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
module compiles a set of source files and links the resulting object files
with any required libraries into a target executable or compiled code.
.Pp
It supports source in the following languages:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Ada (*.adb, *.ads)
.It
Assembler (*.asm)
.It
C (*.c)
.It
C++ (*.cc or *.cpp)
.It
Lex (*.l)
.It
Objective C (*.m)
.It
Yacc (*.y)
.El
.Sh TARGETS
.Bl -tag -width "deinstall-prog "
.It Ar ${PROG}
Compile/link the ${PROG} executable from the specified source files.
.It Ar clean-prog
Clean up object and executable files.
.It Ar cleandir-prog
Clean up for packaging.
.It Ar install-prog
Install program to the target installation directory
(see
.Xr build.common.mk 5 ) .
.It Ar deinstall-prog
Uninstall program from the installation directory.
.El
.Sh VARIABLES
.Bl -tag -width "CONF_OVERWRITE  "
.It Ev SRCS
List of source files to compile into the target executable.
.It Ev SRCS_GENERATED
List of source files (subset of ${SRCS}) which are auto-generated.
Files in this list will be processed before anything else is compiled.
.It Ev PROG
Filename of target executable.
Platform-specific transforms may be applied to the name.
If cross-compiling to WebAssembly (using "emscripten" target),
${PROG} is expected to have the extension ".html", ".js", ".mjs" or ".wasm".
.It Ev PROG_TYPE
Platform-specific program type.
Set to "CLI" (command-line utility), "GUI" (graphical user interface) or
"DAEMON" (server program).
Defaults to "CLI".
.It Ev PROG_INSTALL
Program can be installed.
Defaults to "Yes". Setting this to "No" makes the
.Ar install
target a no-op.
.It Ev PROG_PREFIX
Prepend this string to installed executable name.
.It Ev PROG_SUFFIX
Append this string to installed executable name.
.It Ev PROG_TRANSFORM
Apply this
.Xr sed 1
expression to installed executable name.
.It Ev PROG_GUID
An optional Global Unique Identifier (GUID).
.It Ev ADA
Compiler for Ada sources.
Defaults to "ada" or "gcc".
.It Ev ADABIND
Ada binder.
Defaults to "gnatbind".
.It Ev CC
Compiler for C, C++ and Objective C sources.
Defaults to "cc", "clang" or "gcc".
.It Ev PROG_PROFILE
Set "Yes" to compile with profiling instrumentation.
.It Ev PROG_LINKER_TYPE
Set to "C" for C-style linker (the default),
"CL65" for cc65 (the default if
.Dv HAVE_CC65
is set) or "ADA" (the default if SRCS contains *.ad[bs] files exclusively).
.It Ev ADAFLAGS
Compiler flags for Ada sources.
.It Ev ADABFLAGS
Flags to pass to the Ada binder.
.It Ev CFLAGS
Compiler flags for C sources.
Defaults to "-O2 -g".
.It Ev CXXFLAGS
Compiler flags for C++ sources.
Defaults to "".
.It Ev OBJCFLAGS
Compiler flags for Objective C sources.
Defaults to "${CFLAGS}".
.It Ev CPPFLAGS
C preprocessor flags.
Defaults to "".
.It Ev ASM
Compiler for assembler sources.
Defaults to "nasm".
.It Ev ASMFLAGS
Compiler flags for assembler.
Defaults to "-g -w-orphan-labels".
.It Ev LEX
Path to the
.Xr lex 1
lexical analyzer generator.
.It Ev YACC
Path to the
.Xr yacc 1
parser generator.
.It Ev LFLAGS
Options for
.Xr lex 1 .
Defaults to "".
.It Ev YFLAGS
Options for
.Xr yacc 1 .
Defaults to "-d".
.It Ev LIBL
Libraries to use for Lex lexers.
Defaults to "-ll".
.It Ev WINDRES
(win32) Path to the
.Xr windres 1
utility.
.It Ev WINRES
(win32) Windows resource files for
.Xr windres 1 .
.It Ev DATAFILES
List of data files to install into
.Dv ${DATADIR} .
The files must exist in the build directory (which may be separate from the
source directory if configure --srcdir was used).
.It Ev DATAFILES_SRC
Files to install into
.Dv ${DATADIR} .
This variable is handled similarly to
.Ev DATAFILES ,
except that the specified files must exist in the source directory.
.It Ev BINDIR
Target installation directory for executables.
.It Ev CONFDIR
System-wide configuration files will be installed into this directory.
Typically set to "${SYSCONFDIR}" or "${SYSCONFDIR}/MyApplication".
.It Ev CONF
List of configuration files to install into
.Dv ${CONFDIR}.
Note that the
.Ar install
target will not override existing configuration files, instead it will
output a
.Dq The following configuration files have been preserved
message.
.It Ev CONF_OVERWRITE
Overwrite any existing configuration file on installation.
Default is "No".
.It Ev CLEANFILES
Any extra files that the
.Ar clean
target should remove.
.It Ev CLEANDIRFILES
Any extra files that the
.Ar cleandir
target should remove.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr build.common.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.lib.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.man.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.www.mk 5
.Pp
.Lk https://bsdbuild.hypertriton.com/
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
first appeared in BSDBuild 1.0.
.Pp
BSDBuild is based on the 4.4BSD build system.
