.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2023 Julien Nadeau Carriere <vedge@csoft.net>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 1, 2024
.Dt MKIFY 1
.Os BSDBuild 3.2
.Sh NAME
.Nm mkify
.Nd BSDBuild auto-bundling script
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar module
.Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility copies installed BSDBuild include files from their system location
to
.Pa mk
under the working directory.
It accepts a list of BSDBuild modules as arguments (e.g.,
.Sq prog
will cause
.Xr build.prog.mk 5
to be installed).
.Nm
also scans for include directives and will automatically install all
dependencies as well.
.Pp
The BSDBuild build system is designed to be bundled with applications as
a stand-alone set of
.Xr make 1
include files, which are typically installed in a directory named
.Pa mk
in the top-level directory (or some other central location) in an
application source code, such that people building applications which
use the BSDBuild build system do not need to have BSDBuild or any
other software installed on their systems.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mkconfigure 1 ,
.Xr build.common.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.lib.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.man.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.prog.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.www.mk 5
.Pp
.Lk https://bsdbuild.hypertriton.com/
