.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Hypertriton, Inc. <http://www.hypertriton.com/>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd DECEMBER 4, 2009
.Dt UMAN 1
.Os
.ds vT BSDBuild Reference
.ds oS BSDBuild 2.7
.Sh NAME
.Nm uman
.Nd Uninstalled manual page reader
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm uman
.Op Ar search-string
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
script formats and displays uninstalled manual pages, without using the
system manual.
The
.Ar search-string
argument should be a manual page title (or in the case of library
documentation, the name of a function, structure or class).
.Pp
The
.Dv UMANPATH
environment variable should be defined as a comma-separated list of
directories containing manual page source files such as
.Pa foo.1 ,
and optionally BSDBuild-generated
.Pa .manlink.mk
files.
.Nm
will search the directories recursively.
.Pp
If a match is found,
.Nm
formats and feeds the resulting manual page to the system
.Dv PAGER
(or the default,
.Xr less 1 ) .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr build.man.mk 5 ,
.Xr build.common.mk 5
.Pp
http://hypertriton.com/bsdbuild/
